[DOC-3338] Multilayer caching topic (#2318)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/caching-ci-data/multilayer-caching.md

For example, it is a common practice in Ruby builds to add or change gems. In a pipeline with single-layer caching, adding a gem causes the cache key to fail to find a matching cache to restore. Without a restored cache, the build reinstalls all gems. In contrast, multilayer caching can reduce build time by pulling the most recent cache, which has all gems except the new one, and then installing only the new gem.

## Requirements

Multilayer caching is an advanced pattern that requires you to be familiar with:

* [CI pipeline creation](../prep-ci-pipeline-components.md)
* **Save Cache** and **Restore Cache** steps
  * [Save and Restore Cache from S3](./saving-cache.md)
  * [Save and Restore Cache from GCS](./save-cache-in-gcs.md)
* [Failure strategies](/docs/platform/pipelines/define-a-failure-strategy-on-stages-and-steps/)
* [Conditional execution settings](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/), particularly [step conditions](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/#step-conditions).

> ## Pattern overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pattern for CI pipelines with multilayer caching
```

Reviewer: Or something similarly specific to make the heading more scannable.

The general pattern for multilayer caching in CI pipelines is as follows:

* Use multiple **Restore Cache** steps.
  * You need one step for each cache, as identified by a cache key, that you want to attempt to restore.
  * These steps represent a cadence of potential caches to restore. You want your pipeline to check if the first cache exists, and, if it doesn't, then check for the second cache, and so on.

> * All **Restore Cache** steps except the last (`n-1`) have a [failure strategy](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-failure-strategy-settings/) that causes the step to fail if the cache key doesn't exist.

Reviewer 2: All **Restore Cache** steps except the last (`n-1`) have a [failIfKeyNotFound] set to true, so that the step is marked as failure

It also need a failure strategy to ignore the same failure, putting the step to fail ignored or similar state so that it failed, but does not fail the whole pipeline

Author: Fixed, thank you for the clarification.

                    key: harness-cache-{{ checksum "pom.xml" }}
                    archiveFormat: Tar
                    failIfKeyNotFound: true
                  failureStrategies:
                    - onFailure:
                        errors:
                          - AllErrors
                        action:
                          type: Ignore
              - step:
                  type: RestoreCacheGCS
                  name: L2 Cache
                  identifier: L2_Cache
                  spec:
                    connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                    bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                    key: harness-cache-l2
                    archiveFormat: Tar
                  when:
                    stageStatus: Success
                    condition: <+execution.steps.L1_Caching.status> == "IGNORE_FAILED"
              - step: ## Between the Restore and Save Cache steps, add steps to build code, run tests, publish images, and so on.
                  type: Run
                  name: Run_1
                  identifier: Run_1
                  spec:
                    shell: Sh
                    command: |-

>                       echo <+execution.steps.L1_Caching.status>

Reviewer 2: let's remove this echo. It was for my debug purpose

Author: Removed it.

                      identifier: Save_L1_Cache
                      spec:
                        connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                        bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                        key: harness-cache-{{ checksum "pom.xml" }}
                        sourcePaths:
                          - /.m2/repository/
                        archiveFormat: Tar
          sharedPaths: ## This setting shares directories that are outside the default workspace directory (/harness).
            - /.m2/repository/
  properties:
    ci:
      codebase:
        connectorRef: account.jhttp
        build: <+input>
```

:::tip sharedPaths

The `sharedPaths` setting is used to specify directories outside the default workspace directory (`/harness`).

In the above example, the `/.m2/repository/` directory is outside `/harness`, so it must be specified in `sharedPaths` for the steps to be able to access it.

For more information, go to [Share data between steps in a stage](/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/caching-ci-data/share-ci-data-across-steps-and-stages#share-data-between-steps-in-a-stage).

:::

</details>

## Configure multilayer caching

> The following steps demonstrate how to configure multilayer caching in one stage of a CI pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to configure multilayer caching in one stage of a CI pipeline.
```

:::tip

If you are using the visual editor in the Pipeline Studio, you can find **Conditional Execution** and **Failure Strategy** settings on the **Advanced** tab of your step settings.

:::

1. Add **Restore Cache** steps. You need one step for each cache, as identified by a cache key, that you want to attempt to restore.

   In this multilayer caching pattern, the cache keys represent a cadence of potential caches to restore, where you want your pipeline to check if the first cache exists, and, if it doesn't, then check for the second cache, and so on.

>    The following YAML example would add two **Restore Cache from GCS** steps to a pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following YAML adds two **Restore Cache from GCS** steps to a pipeline:
```

   ```yaml
                 - step:
                     type: RestoreCacheGCS
                     name: L1 Caching
                     identifier: L1_Caching
                     spec:
                       connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                       bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                       key: harness-cache-{{ checksum "pom.xml" }}
                       archiveFormat: Tar
                 - step:
                     type: RestoreCacheGCS
                     name: L2 Cache
                     identifier: L2_Cache
                     spec:
                       connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                       bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                       key: harness-cache-l2
                       archiveFormat: Tar
   ```

   For information about **Restore Cache** step settings, go to [Save and Restore Cache from S3](./saving-cache.md) and [Save and Restore Cache from GCS](./save-cache-in-gcs.md).

> 2. On each **Restore Cache** step *except the last*, enable **Fail if Key Doesn't Exist** and add a [failure strategy](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-failure-strategy-settings/) where the step fails on **All Errors** and executes the **Ignore** action in response, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On each **Restore Cache** step *except the last*, enable **Fail if Key Doesn't Exist**, and add a [failure strategy](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-failure-strategy-settings/) where the step fails on **All Errors** and executes the **Ignore** action in response. For example:
```

                     identifier: L1_Caching
                     spec:
                       connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                       bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                       key: harness-cache-{{ checksum "pom.xml" }}
                       archiveFormat: Tar
                       failIfKeyNotFound: true
                     failureStrategies:
                       - onFailure:
                           errors:
                             - AllErrors
                           action:
                             type: Ignore
                 - step:
                     type: RestoreCacheGCS
                     name: L2 Cache
                     identifier: L2_Cache
                     spec:
                       connectorRef: YOUR_GCP_CONNECTOR
                       bucket: YOUR_GCS_BUCKET_NAME
                       key: harness-cache-l2
                       archiveFormat: Tar
   ```

3. On each **Restore Cache** step *except the first*, add a [conditional execution](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/#step-conditions) that runs the step only if the preceding step failed.

>    Set the conditional execution to **Execute this step if the stage execution is successful thus far** (`stageStatus: Success`) and include the JEXL condition `<+execution.steps.L1_Caching.status> == "IGNORE_FAILED"`, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Set the conditional execution to **Execute this step if the stage execution is successful thus far** (`stageStatus: Success`) and include the JEXL condition `<+execution.steps.L1_Caching.status> == "IGNORE_FAILED"`. For example:
```

Reviewer: I do this if the sentence is really long.

## Requirements

Multilayer caching is an advanced pattern that requires you to be familiar with:

* [CI pipeline creation](../prep-ci-pipeline-components.md)
* **Save Cache** and **Restore Cache** steps
  * [Save and Restore Cache from S3](./saving-cache.md)
  * [Save and Restore Cache from GCS](./save-cache-in-gcs.md)
* [Failure strategies](/docs/platform/pipelines/define-a-failure-strategy-on-stages-and-steps/)
* [Conditional execution settings](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/), particularly [step conditions](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/#step-conditions).

## Pattern overview

The general pattern for multilayer caching in CI pipelines is as follows:

* Use multiple **Restore Cache** steps.
  * You need one step for each cache, as identified by a cache key, that you want to attempt to restore.
  * These steps represent a cadence of potential caches to restore. You want your pipeline to check if the first cache exists, and, if it doesn't, then check for the second cache, and so on.

> * All **Restore Cache** steps except the last (`n-1`) have a [failure strategy](/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-failure-strategy-settings/) that causes the step to fail if the cache key doesn't exist.

Reviewer 2: This is not a failure strategy. failIfKeyNotFound is a checkbox you can find only in the cache plugin step

Author: Okay
